Tests with coverage (#209)
quarkusio/quarkus-quickstarts: tests-with-coverage/README.md

# Measuring the coverage of your tests

Learn how to measure the test coverage of your application.

* Measuring the coverage of your Unit Tests
* Measuring the coverage of your Integration Tests
* Separating the execution of your Unit Tests and Integration Tests
* Consolidating the coverage for all your tests

Please note that code coverage is not supported in native mode.

## How to run

You need:

* JDK 1.8+ installed with JAVA_HOME configured appropriately
* Apache Maven 3.5.3+

> This way, the ```QuarkusTest``` instances will be executed as part of the ```integration-test``` build phase while the other JUnit tests will still be ran during the ```test``` phase. You can run all the tests with the command mvn clean verify (and you will notice that two tests are ran in different phases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This way, the ```QuarkusTest``` instances will be executed as part of the ```integration-test``` build phase while the other JUnit tests will still be ran during the ```test``` phase.
```

Reviewer: Last sentence is duplicated ...

You can all the tests via the command ```mvn clean verify``` (and you will notice that the two tests are ran at different times).

It will generate three separate reports:
* a report of the coverage of the unit tests in ```target/site/jacoco-ut```
* a report of the coverage of the integration tests in ```target/site/jacoco-it```
* a consolidated report that will show the coverage of all your tests combined in  ```target/site/jacoco```

## Learn more

> If you want to know more about this quickstart and understand all about, it please read the guide that can be found [here](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/master/docs/src/main/asciidoc/tests-with-coverage-guide.adoc). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more in-depth information please see [Quarkus - Measuring the coverage of your tests](https://github.com/quarkusio/quarkus/blob/master/docs/src/main/asciidoc/tests-with-coverage-guide.adoc) guide.
```

# Measuring the coverage of your tests

Learn how to measure the test coverage of your application. This guide covers:

* Measuring the coverage of your Unit Tests
* Measuring the coverage of your Integration Tests
* Separating the execution of your Unit Tests and Integration Tests
* Consolidating the coverage for all your tests

> Please note that code coverage is not supported in native mode

Author: Added

## Prerequisites

To complete this guide, you need:

* less than 15 minutes
* an IDE
* JDK 1.8+ installed with JAVA_HOME configured appropriately
* Apache Maven 3.5.3+

> * Having completed the guide [Geeting started testing](https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-testing)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Having completed the [Testing your application guide](https://quarkus.io/guides/getting-started-testing)
```

## Architecture

The application built in this guide is just a JAX-RS endpoint (hello world) that relies on dependency injection to use a service.
Service will be tested thanks to JUnit 5 and Endpoint will be tested via a ```@QuarkusTest``` annotation.

## Solution

We recommend that you follow the instructions in the next sections and create the application step by step. However, you can go right to the completed example.
Clone the Git repository: git clone {quickstarts-clone-url}, or download an {quickstarts-archive-url}[archive].
The solution is located in the tests-with-coverage directory.

## Starting from a simple project and two tests

> Let's start with an application that looks like the content of the guide *getting-started-testing* but with a few modifications for the sake of the example.

Reviewer 2: Frankly, I would start from a Maven command generating a new application. I don't think it's a good idea to base this one on the other one.

Author: I was a bit puzzled to find how to start. Let's start from scratch like you suggest.

Author: Modification done. Tell me if that's what you expected.

```XML
<project>
    ...
    <build>
        <plugins>
            <plugin>
                <artifactId>maven-surefire-plugin</artifactId>
                <version>${surefire-plugin.version}</version>
                <configuration>
                    <excludedGroups>integration</excludedGroups>
                    <systemProperties>
                        <java.util.logging.manager>org.jboss.logmanager.LogManager</java.util.logging.manager>
                    </systemProperties>
                </configuration>
                <executions>
                    <execution>
                        <id>integration-tests</id>
                        <phase>integration-test</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>test</goal>
                        </goals>
                        <configuration>
                            <excludedGroups>!integration</excludedGroups>
                            <groups>integration</groups>
                        </configuration>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
        </plugins>
    </build>
    ...
</project>
```

> Now can now run only the JUnits via the command ```mvn clean test```. Or you can all the tests via the command ```mvn clean verify``` (but you can notice that the two tests are ran at different times).

Author: You're right... I tried to phrase it differently to express that.

                        </configuration>
                    </execution>
                    <execution>
                        <id>post-merge-report</id>
                        <phase>verify</phase>
                        <goals>
                            <goal>report</goal>
                        </goals>
                        <configuration>
                            <dataFile>${project.build.directory}/jacoco.exec</dataFile>
                            <outputDirectory>${project.reporting.outputDirectory}/jacoco</outputDirectory>
                        </configuration>
                    </execution>
                </executions>
            </plugin>
        </plugins>
    </build>
    ...
    <dependencies>
        ...
        <dependency>
            <groupId>org.jacoco</groupId>
            <artifactId>org.jacoco.agent</artifactId>
            <classifier>runtime</classifier>
            <scope>test</scope>
            <version>${jacoco.version}</version>
        </dependency>
    </dependencies>
</project>
```

## Conclusion

You now have all the information you need to study the coverage of your tests!

> But remember, some code that is not covered is certinaly not well tested. But some code that is covered is not necessarily *well* tested. Make sure to write good tests!

Author: Yes, that was well spotted from the beginning don't worry. I just thought I would ask for a review here (I was scared that it could lead to changes to be done on the quickstart sample code itself) and once we agree on the content, I'd convert it and add it to the main repo as asciidoc.
It seems we reached that point ;-)
